README.md, before:

# Toolchest Python Client

**Toolchest** provides APIs for scientific and bioinformatic data analysis.
It allows you to abstract away the costliness of running tools on your
own resources by running the same jobs on secure, powerful remote
servers.

This package contains the **Python** client for using Toolchest.
For the **R** client, [see here](https://github.com/trytoolchest/toolchest-client-r).

## Installation

The Toolchest client is available [on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/toolchest-client):
``` shell
pip install toolchest-client
```

## Usage

Using a tool in Toolchest is as simple as:

``` python
import toolchest_client as toolchest
toolchest.set_key("YOUR_TOOLCHEST_KEY")
toolchest.kraken2(
  tool_args="",
  inputs="path/to/input.fastq",
  output_path="path/to/output.fastq",
)
```

For a list of available tools, see the [documentation](https://toolchest-python-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

## Configuration

To use Toolchest, you must have an authentication key stored
in the `TOOLCHEST_KEY` environment variable.

``` python
import toolchest_client as toolchest
toolchest.set_key("YOUR_TOOLCHEST_KEY") # or a file path containing the key
```

Contact Toolchest if:

-   you need a key
-   you’ve forgotten your key
-   the key is producing authentication errors.

## Documentation & User Guide available at [Read the Docs](https://toolchest-python-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Commit message:

chore: new docs links (#162)
* chore: update docs URL

* chore: update other docs URL

* chore: edit kraken2 docstring

* fix: deprecate old docs

* chore: add old docs requirements

for autodeploying "deprecated" pages

* chore: update readme link

* chore: old docs link

* chore: update docs link in pyproject.toml

* chore: update readme blurb

README.md, after:

# Toolchest Python Client

**Toolchest** runs computational biology software in the cloud with just a few lines of code. 
You can call Toolchest from anywhere Python or R runs, using input files located on your computer or S3.

This package contains the **Python** client for using Toolchest.
For the **R** client, [see here](https://github.com/trytoolchest/toolchest-client-r).

## [Documentation & User Guide](https://docs.trytoolchest.com/)

## Installation

The Toolchest client is available [on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/toolchest-client):
``` shell
pip install toolchest-client
```

## Usage

Using a tool in Toolchest is as simple as:

``` python
import toolchest_client as toolchest
toolchest.set_key("YOUR_TOOLCHEST_KEY")
toolchest.kraken2(
  tool_args="",
  inputs="path/to/input.fastq",
  output_path="path/to/output.fastq",
)
```

For a list of available tools, see the [documentation](https://docs.trytoolchest.com/).

## Configuration

To use Toolchest, you must have an authentication key stored
in the `TOOLCHEST_KEY` environment variable.

``` python
import toolchest_client as toolchest
toolchest.set_key("YOUR_TOOLCHEST_KEY") # or a file path containing the key
```

Contact Toolchest if:

-   you need a key
-   you’ve forgotten your key
-   the key is producing authentication errors.
